### Reference

1. [Abstract](#abstract)
2. [Specification](#specification)
   1. [UserOperation](#user_operation)
   2. [EntryPoint contract](#entry_point_contract)
   3. [Aggregator](#aggregator)
   4. [initCode](#initCode)
   5. [Owner and sender](#owner_and_sender)
3. [Simulation](#simulation)
4. [Bundler](#bundler)
5. [Paymaster](#paymaster)
6. [Reference](#reference)

### Abstract <a name="abstract"></a>

An account abstraction proposal which completely avoids the need for consensus-layer protocol changes. Instead of adding new protocol features and changing the bottom-layer transaction type, this proposal instead introduces a higher-layer pseudo-transaction object called a `UserOperation`. Users send `UserOperation` objects into a separate mempool. A special class of actor called bundlers package up set of these objects into a transaction making a `handleOps` call to a special contract, and that transaction then gets included in a block.

### Specification <a name="specification"></a>

ERC-4337 introduced some new special aspects:

- [UserOperation](#user_operation): A structure that describe a transaction to be sent on behalf of a user. To avoid confusion, is is not named "transaction".
- `Sender`: The account contract sending a user operation.
- [EntryPoint](#entry_point_contract): A singleton contract to execute bundles of `UserOperation`. Bundlers/Clients whitelist the supported entrypoint.
- [Bundler](#bundler): A node(block builder) that bundles multiple `UserOperation` and create an `EntryPoint.handleOps()` transaction. Note that not all block-bundlers on the network are required to be bundlers.
- [Aggregator](#aggregator): A helper contract trusted by accounts to validate an aggregated signature. Bundler/Clients whitelist the supported aggregators.

#### UserOperation <a name="user_operation"></a>

`UserOperation` has several element below:

| Field                | Type    | Description                                                                                                                             |
| :------------------- | :------ | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| sender               | address | The account making the operation                                                                                                        |
| nonce                | unit256 | Anti-replay parameter; also used as the salt for first-time account creation                                                            |
| initCode             | bytes   | The initCode of the account(needed if and only if the account is not yet on-chain and needs to be create)                               |
| callData             | bytes   | The data to pass to the sender during the main execution call                                                                           |
| callGasLimit         | uint256 | The amount of gas to allocate the main execution call                                                                                   |
| verificationGasLimit | uint256 | The amount of gas to allocate for the verification step                                                                                 |
| preVerificationGas   | uint256 | The amount of gas to pay for to compensate the bundler for pre-verification execution and calldata                                      |
| maxFeePerGas         | uint256 | Maximum fee per gas(similar to EIP-1559 max_fee_per_gas)                                                                                |
| maxPriorityFeePerGas | uint256 | Maximum priority fee per gas                                                                                                            |
| paymasterAndData     | bytes   | Address of paymaster sponsoring the transaction, followed by extra data to send to the paymaster (empty for self-sponsored transaction) |
| signature            | bytes   | Data passed into the account along with the nonce during the verification step                                                          |

### EntryPoint contract <a name="entry_point_contract"></a>

The core interface of the entry point contract is as follows:

```shell
function handleOps(UserOperation[] calldata ops, address payable beneficiary);

function handleAggregatedOps(
    UserOpsPerAggregator[] calldata opsPerAggregator,
    address payable beneficiary
);


struct UserOpsPerAggregator {
    UserOperation[] userOps;
    IAggregator aggregator;
    bytes signature;
}
function simulateValidation(UserOperation calldata userOp);

error ValidationResult(ReturnInfo returnInfo,
    StakeInfo senderInfo, StakeInfo factoryInfo, StakeInfo paymasterInfo);

error ValidationResultWithAggregation(ReturnInfo returnInfo,
    StakeInfo senderInfo, StakeInfo factoryInfo, StakeInfo paymasterInfo,
    AggregatorStakeInfo aggregatorInfo);

struct ReturnInfo {
  uint256 preOpGas;
  uint256 prefund;
  bool sigFailed;
  uint48 validAfter;
  uint48 validUntil;
  bytes paymasterContext;
}

struct StakeInfo {
  uint256 stake;
  uint256 unstakeDelaySec;
}

struct AggregatorStakeInfo {
    address actualAggregator;
    StakeInfo stakeInfo;
}
```

There are 2 separate entry point method: `handleOps` and `handleAggregateOps`

- `handleOps` handle user operation of accounts that don't require any signature aggregator
- `handleAggregatedOps` can handle a batch that contains user operation of multiple aggregators(and also requests without any aggregator). `handleAggregatedOps` performs the same logic below as `handleOps`, but it must transfer the correct aggregator to each user operation, and also must call [validateSignatures](#aggregator) on each aggregator after doing all the pre-account validation. The entry point's `handleOps` function must perform the following steps(we first describe the simpler non-paymaster case). It must make two loop, the <b>verification loop</b> and the <b>execution loop</b>.

In the verification loop, `handleOps` call must perform the following steps for each `UserOperation`:

- Create the account if it does not yet exist, using the initcode provided in the `UserOperation`. If the account does not exist, and the initcode is empty, or does not deploy a contract at the “sender” address, the call must fail.
- Call `validateUserOp` on the account, passing in the `UserOperation`, the required fee and aggregator (if there is one). The account should verify the operation’s signature, and pay the fee if the account considers the operation valid. If any `validateUserOp` call fails, `handleOps` must skip execution of at least that operation, and may revert entirely.
- Validate the account’s deposit in the entryPoint is high enough to cover the max possible cost (cover the already-done verification and max execution gas)

In the execution loop, the `handleOps` call must perform the following steps for each `UserOperation`:

- Call the account with the `UserOperation’s calldata`. It’s up to the account to choose how to parse the calldata; an expected workflow is for the account to have an execute function that parses the remaining calldata as a series of one or more calls that the account should make.

#### Aggregator <a name="aggregator"></a>

The core interface required by an aggregator is:

```shell
interface IAggregator {

  function validateUserOpSignature(UserOperation calldata userOp)
  external view returns (bytes memory sigForUserOp);

  function aggregateSignatures(UserOperation[] calldata userOps) external view returns (bytes memory aggregatesSignature);

  function validateSignatures(UserOperation[] calldata userOps, bytes calldata signature) view external;
}
```

The aggregator is merely a helper for the bundler, the bundler may use a native library to perform the same validation and aggregation logic. If an account uses an aggregator(return it from `validateUserOp`), then its address is returned by `simulateValidation()` reverting with `ValidationResultWithAggregator` instead of `ValidationResult`.

- To accept the user operation, the bundler must call `validateUserOpSignature()` to validate the user operation signature.
- `aggregateSignatures()` must aggregate all user operation signature into a single value.
- `validateSignatures()` must validate the aggregated signature matches for all `UserOperation` in the array, and revert otherwise. This method is called on-chain by `handleOps()`

#### initCode <a name="initCode"></a>

- The most different between the first transaction and other transactions is the first transaction have `initCode parameter`. initCode is needed if and only if the account is not yet on-chain and needs to be created. It contain data to create `sender`. It has two parts. The 20 first bytes is the factory address(the smart contract is used for creating account(`sender`)) and remain bytes is the data that will be used deploy new account.

#### Owner and sender <a name="owner_and_sender"></a>

- You must distinguish between owner and sender to clearly understand account abstraction. Overall, owner is likely a normal EMV account, it is called `owner` because it can control `sender`(a smart contract that indeed keeps your assets). Through `owner account`, you can control `sender`, and then control whole your assets.
- Likely talking above, `sender` is just a smart contract that indeed keeps your assets. It a the season why it is called `sender`, because of keeping assets, it is the only factor that can implement your transaction.
- On entire article, I will explain the progress to create a simple account abstraction, including a `owner` that is managed by `keyring` and a `sender` that control your assets. On next article, I will mention more detail about how can you send a transaction and how can you pay for it.
- Firstly, all we need is creating a simple EMV account, the step is very like to creating a metamask account.
- After creating a EMV account, you already have has `owner account` for yourself, the next step you must do is creating `your owner` based on `your owner account`. It is an easy step, all you must do is call function `getAddress(address, uint256)` of `Factory contract`.
- Now, we will dig deeply into what happens when we call function `getAddress(address, uint256)`. This function has two parameters, the first parameter is your `owner account address`, the second parameter is a salt number. It will call `Create2 opcode`

### Simulation <a name="simulation"></a>

In order to add a `UserOperation` into the mempool (and later to add it into a bundle) we need to “simulate” its validation to make sure it is valid, and that it is capable of paying for its own execution. In addition, it need to verify that the same will true when executed on-chain. For this purpose, a `UserOperation` is not allowed to access any information that might change between simulation and execution, such as current block time, number, hash etc. Instead, a `UserOperation` is only allowed to access data related to this sender address: Multiple `UserOperation` should not access the same storage, so that it is impossible to invalidate a large number of `UserOperation` with a single state change.

There are 2 special contracts that interact with the account: the factory(initCode) that deploys the contract, the paymaster that can pay for the gas, the signature aggregator. Each of these is also restricted in its storage access, to make sure `UserOperation` validations are isolated.

To simulate a `UserOperation` validation, the client makes a view call to `simulateValidation(userop)`. This method always revert with `ValidationResult` as successful response, if the call reverts with other error, the client rejects this `UserOperation`. The simulated call perform the full validation by following calling:

1. If initCode is present, create the account
2. Call `account.validateUserOps`
3. If specified a paymaster: `paymaster.validatePaymasterUserOps`

Either `validateUserOp` or `validatePaymasterUserOp` may return a `validAfter` and `validUntil` timestamps, which is the time-range that this `UserOperation` is valid on-chain. The `simulateValidation` call returns this range. A node may drop a `UserOperation` if it expires too soon (e.g. wouldn’t make it to the next block) If the ValidationResult includes sigFail, the client SHOULD drop the `UserOperation`.

### Bundler <a name="bundler"></a>

- Bundler monitors an alternative mempool of UserOperation that are waiting to be bundled into a single transaction.

### Paymaster <a name="paymaster"></a>

### Reference <a name="reference"></a>

- https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4337
- https://www.alchemy.com/overviews/what-is-a-bundler
- https://www.alchemy.com/blog/account-abstraction
- https://www.alchemy.com/blog/account-abstraction-paymasters
